# On reading blogs

I tried a few RSS readers because that's what people who read blogs do. I used Feedbin for a week – nice app. Not for me. I get that it’s better than drinking from the firsue hose of social media. RSS allows to curate feeds, which is a lot of work. I loaded up a few feeds into Feedbin and got a cascade of stuff, yet another feed. My own feed, how lovely. The glaring problem is that If I have a feed, I’ll check it to juice some miserable dopamine out of it. Save me from myself. RSS you are merely the hippie cousin of big daddy Meta. 

That said, If you want to shove my feed up your feed, feel free to do so (before I decide to blast it, my finger is hovering the “delete” key at the moment). Regardless, there’s only title, link, and date. Consider visiting my URL for the full experience (award-winning white space), it’s not too far.

Anyhow, losing the experience of being on someone's little corner of the internet is what I like about the experience of blogs. Even if I come back often and I don’t like the design. I love how personal it feels in contrast to everything else on the internet. I appreciate quirky stuff (just in case I need to spell this). Also, generally speaking, I minimize the amount of apps in my ecosystem and prefer files. I’m old school, I have a text file as my blogroll and edit .md files via FTP.

Side note: I’m not a fan of feed-style blogs. Those with super short notes that reminisce of Twitter. To me, that smells like the vegan burger dilemma. It’s fine to want to opt out of social media, just don’t make your own and think you escaped the matrix. I get that having a blog is not the same tech as mainstream social media but… it’s still the same UX and vibe. It is hard to refrain, I know, after decades of abuse, relapse is quick. Login with X! Continue with Google! This kind of post is as close as I allow myself to the ugly beast. And honestly, I wish I could just let go of most of these thoughts without an outlet. At least I’m not boring you with the details of my blog setup and my writing process.

The «not by AI» badge and project make me laugh very hard. I get the urge to resist AI. Slop has been around for ages, we used to call this spam a few years ago. But if your stuff is indistinguishable from slop, maybe… you see where I’m going. It’s not nice. I know. Some people just want a nice badge to sew on their jeans jackets. The ones who prefer to make an “AI statement” seem more mature. I may write one at some point, but I would need to give a crap.